# machineid

Inspired from Go's [machineid](https://github.com/denisbrodbeck/machineid).
machineid provides support for reading the unique machine id of most host OS's (without admin privileges)

## Main Features

* Cross-Platform (tested on Win7+, Debian 8+, Ubuntu 14.04+, OS X 10.6+, FreeBSD 11+)
* No admin privileges required
* Hardware independent (no usage of MAC, BIOS or CPU — those are too unreliable, especially in a VM environment)
* IDs are unique<sup>[1](#unique-key-reliability)</sup> to the installed OS


## Installation

1. Add the dependency to your `shard.yml`:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     machineid:
       github: razorinc/machineid
   ```

2. Run `shards install`

## Usage

```crystal
require "machineid"
```

### Function: ID() (string)

Returns original machine id as a `string`.

### Function: ProtectedID(appID string)

Returns hashed version of the machine ID as a `string`. The hash is generated in a cryptographically secure way, using a fixed, application-specific key (calculates HMAC-SHA256 of the app ID, keyed by the machine ID).

## What you get

This package returns the OS native machine UUID/GUID, which the OS uses for internal needs.

All machine IDs are usually generated during system installation and stay constant for all subsequent boots.

The following sources are used:

* **BSD** uses `/etc/hostid` and `smbios.system.uuid` as a fallback
* **Linux** uses `/var/lib/dbus/machine-id` ([man](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/machine-id.5.html))
* **OS X** uses `IOPlatformUUID`
* **Windows** uses the `MachineGuid` from `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Cryptography`

## Unique Key Reliability

Do note, that `machine-id` and `MachineGuid` can be changed by root/admin, although that may not come without cost (broken system services and more).
Most IDs won't be regenerated by the OS, when you clone/image/restore a particular OS installation. This is a well known issue with cloned windows installs (not using the official sysprep tools).

**Linux** users can generate a new id with `dbus-uuidgen` and put the id into `/var/lib/dbus/machine-id` and `/etc/machine-id`.
**Windows** users can use the `sysprep` [toolchain](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/sysprep--generalize--a-windows-installation) to create images, which produce valid images ready for distribution. Such images produce a new unique machine ID on each deployment.

## Security Considerations

A machine ID uniquely identifies the host. Therefore it should be considered "confidential", and must not be exposed in untrusted environments. If you need a stable unique identifier for your app, do not use the machine ID directly.

> A reliable solution is to hash the machine ID in a cryptographically secure way, using a fixed, application-specific key.


## Development

TODO: Write development instructions here

## Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/razorinc/machineid/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Contributors

- [Francesco Vollero](https://github.com/razorinc) - creator and maintainer
